Database
 
Lab Guide
 
 
Short Answer
 
 
1.      what is Data?
    Data is the facts about something.
 
2.      what is Information?
    Information is the collection of data.

3.      what is Database(DB)?
    It is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system.
 
4.      What is the Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
    A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a program that allows you to create, update, and administer a relational database.
 
5.      Define the importance of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
 Relational database helps in maintaining the data integrity, data accuracy, reduces data redundancy to minimum or zero, data scalability, 
 data flexibility and facilitates makes it easy to implement security methods.
 
6.     As we all know that there are Two types of Database. Relational Database(SQL) AND Non-Relational DB(NO sql). what is the difference between them.
 SQL databases are table-based on the other hand NoSQL databases are either key-value pairs, document-based, graph databases or wide-column stores. 
 This makes relational SQL databases a better option for applications that require multi-row transactions such as an accounting system or for legacy systems
 that were built for a relational structure. 
 
7. List examples of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
   MySQL, MariaDB, POsgresDB, OracleDB, Micrisoft SQL Server
  
8.       List examples of Non-Relational DB(Nosql)?
   MongoDB, DynamoDB
 
9.       Define and Describe is Structured Query Language(SQL)?
   SQL is a standardized programming language that is used to manage relational databases and perform various operations on the data in them.
 
10.       List and Describe each of the different subsets of SQL(Mean DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)?
   # DDL is used to create and modify the structure of objects in a database using predefined commands and a specific syntax.
   # Data Manipulation Language represents a collection of programming languages explicitly used to make changes to the database, such as: CRUD operations 
     to create, read, update and delete data. Using INSERT, SELECT, UPDATE, and DELETE commands.
   # DCL is mainly used for revoke and to grant the user the required access to a database.
   #TCL commands are basically used for managing and controlling the transactions in a database to maintain consistency.
11.      what is table in Database(DB)?
   Tables are database objects that contain all the data in a database. In tables, data is logically organized in a row-and-column format similar to a spreadsheet.
 
12.     what is column and Row(tuples) in table?
   Rows are a group of cells arranged horizontally to provide uniformity. Columns are a group of cells aligned vertically, and they run from top to bottom.
 
 
To Be Continued…