Database
 
Lab Guide
 
 
Short Answer
 
 
1.      what is Data?
        Data is a collection of facts, such as numbers, words, measurements, observations or just descriptions of things.
 
 
2.      what is Information?
        facts provided or learned about something or someone.
        it is a collection of data.
 
3.      what is Database(DB)?
      
      A database (DB), in the most general sense, is an organized collection of data.
      More specifically, a database is an electronic system that allows data to be easily accessed, manipulated and updated.
     In other words, a database is used by an organization as a method of storing
 
4.      What is the Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
       Relational Database Management System (RDMS) Relational database design (RDD) models’ information and data into a set of tables with rows and columns. 
       Each row of a relation/table represents a record, and each column represents an attribute of data.
      The Structured Query Language (SQL) is used to manipulate relational databases
 
 
5.      Define the importance of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
       A relational database is organized into tables that are used to hold information about the objects to be represented in the database. 
 
 
6.     As we all know that there are Two types of Database. Relational Database(SQL) AND Non-Relational DB(NO sql). what is the difference between them.
   Non-relational databases The non-relational database, or NoSQL database, stores data. However, unlike the relational database, there are no tables, rows, 
   primary keys or foreign keys. Instead, the non-relational database uses a storage model optimized for specific requirements of the type of data being stored.
 
 
7. List examples of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
   Oracle; MySQL; Microsoft SQL server; PostgreSQL; DB2; Microsoft access.
 
 
8.       List examples of Non-Relational DB(Nosql)?
        mongodb,ibm coud database
 
 
9.       Define and Describe is Structured Query Language(SQL)?
       Structured Query Language (SQL) is a programming language that is typically used in relational database or data stream management systems.
 
 
10.       List and Describe each of the different subsets of SQL(Mean DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)?
         DDL: Data Definition Language actually consists of the SQL commands that can be used to define the database schema.
         DDL: commands, create, alter, drop, truncate, rename, comment.
         DQL statements are used for performing queries on the data within schema objects. DQL command:select.
          
 
11.      what is table in Database(DB)?
         Tables are database objects that contain all the data in a database.
 
 
12.     what is column and Row(tuples) in table?
        Rows

       Each row in a database table represents one instance of the type of object described in that table. A row is also called a record.

      Columns

      The columns in a table are the set of facts that we keep track of about that type of object. A column is also called an attribute.