Database 

Lab Guide


Short Answer


1. what is Data? Data is piece of information or fact that may be text number video or image.

2. what is Information? Information is the collection of data.

3.      what is Database(DB)? An organized collection of structured information or data that stored electronically in a computer system.

4.      What is the Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)? The software used to store, manage, query and retrive data stored in a relational data base is called (RDBMS)

5.      Define the importance of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
- High security		-Data Accuracy
- Normalization		- Easy Access to data
- Flexability			- Data integrity
- Simple model
6.     As we all know that there are Two types of Database. Relational Database(SQL) AND Non-Relational DB(NO sql). what is the difference between them.
SQL Relational Database Management System
-	Fixed or static or predefined Schema
-	These DB are not suited for hierarchical data storage.
No SQL – Non relational distributed database system.
-	They have dynamic schema.
-	Best suited for hierarchical data storage.
7. 	List examples of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
MySQL, Oracle, IBM DB2 and Microsoft SQL Server data base.
8.       List examples of Non-Relational DB(Nosql)? 
- MongoDB.
9.       Define and Describe is Structured Query Language(SQL)?
Data Manipulation Languge statements including the create and drop statements for tables and indexes.
- Statements that control data consistency and grant and revoke authority.
10.       List and Describe each of the different subsets of SQL(Mean DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)?
DDL- Data Definition Languge used to create and modify the structure of objects in a data base using predefined commands and a specific syntax. (Auto commit)
DML- Data Manipulation Languge– Subset of Operations used to insert, delete and update data in a database. (not auto committed)
DCL – Data Control Languge– used to control access to data stored in a database (authorization)
TCL – Transaction Control Languge Used to control transactional processing in a database.
11.      what is table in Database(DB)?
Tables are database objects that contain all the data in a database. In contain all the data in a database. In tables data is logically organized in a row and column format.
12.     what is column and Row(tuples) in table?
Column arrange data vertically from top to bottom, while a row arranges data horizontally.
