Answer
 

1.      What is Data?

Data is a raw fact that can be recorded. It may be a text, number, Videos, images.
It is unprocessed and it doesn't have meaning by it self. 

2.      What is Information?

Information is processed and meaning full data. In another word it is stimuli that has meaning in some context for its receiver.

3.      What is Database(DB)?

Database is an organised collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system.

 
4.      What is the Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?

 RDBMS is the software used to store, manage, query, and retrieve data stored in a relational database.
 
5.      Define the importance of Relational Database Management System(RDBMS)?

Relational databases are used to organise data and identify relationships between key data points. Which helps the owner or the organization to make its decisions more efficiently and minimize costs.

6.     As we all know that there are Two types of Databases. Relational Database(SQL) AND Non-Relational DB(NO sql). What is the difference between them?

 Relational databases are table-based. NoSQL databases can be document based, graph databases, key-value pairs, or wide-column stores. Relational databases were built during a time that data was mostly structured and clearly defined by their relationships.
 
7. List examples of Relational Database Management System(RDBMS)?

-Microsoft SQL Server,
-Oracle Database, 
-MySQL 
-IBM DB2.


 
 
8.       List examples of Non-Relational DB(Nosql)?
 
-MongoDB, 
-Apache Cassandra, 
-Redis, 
-Couchbase
-Apache HBase.
 
9.       Define and Describe Structured Query Language(SQL)?

 SQL stands for Structured Query Language and it let us to access and manipulate databases.

 
10.       List and Describe each of the different subsets of SQL(Mean DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)?

DDL:  Data Definition Language. It allows you to perform various operations  on the DataBase.
DML: Data Manipulation Language. The DMLcommands are used for manipulating the data stored in the table and not the table itself.
DCL: Data Control Language. The DCL are the commands to grant and take back authority from any database user.
TCL: Transaction Control Language. Transaction Control Language(TCL) commands are used to manage transactions in the database. These are used to manage the changes made to the data in a table by DML statements. It also allows statements to be grouped together into logical transactions.
 
11.      what is table in Database(DB)?

Tables are database objects that contain all the data in a database
 
12.     what is column and Row(tuples) in table?

In the context of relational databases, a column is a set of data values, all of a single type, in a table.
And a row is a data record within a table.
